# ELEC 331 Wireshark HTTP Lab

1. Is your browser running HTTP version 1.0 or 1.1? What version of HTTP is the
server running?
My browser is running HTTP/1.1. The server is also running HTTP/1.1.

2. What languages (if any) does your browser indicate that it can accept to the
server?
My browser indicates that it can accept either en-GB or en-US.

3. What is the IP address of your computer? Of the gaia.cs.umass.edu server?
The IP address of my computer is 10.0.0.14 (local), while the IP address of the
gaia.cs.umass.edu server is 128.119.245.12.

4. What is the status code returned from the server to your browser?
The status code returned is '200 OK'.

5. When was the HTML file that you are retrieving last modified at the server?
The file was last modified on Tue, 07 Feb 2017 06:59:01 GMT.

6. How many bytes of content are being returned to your browser?
128 bytes of content are being returned to my browser.

7. By inspecting the raw data in the packet content window, do you see any
headers within the data that are not displayed in the packet-listing window? If
so, name one.
No, I do not see any headers within the data that are not displayed in the
packet-listing window.

8. Inspect the contents of the first HTTP GET request from your browser to the
server. Do you see an "IF-MODIFIED-SINCE" line in the HTTP GET?
No, there is not "IF-MODIFIED-SINCE" line in the HTTP GET.

9. Inspect the contents of the server response. Did the server explicitly return
the contents of the file? How can you tell?
The server explicitly returned the contents of the file, as noted by the 200 OK
status and the inclusion of the Line-based text data.

10. Now inspect the contents of the second HTTP GET request from your browser to
the server. Do you see an "IF-MODIFIED-SINCE:" line in the HTTP GET? If
so, what information follows the "IF-MODIFIED-SINCE:" header?
An "IF-MODIFIED-SINCE" line does exist in the GET request, followed by the
Last-Modified date which was returned in the previous response (in this case,
the date is Tue, 07 Feb 2017 06:59:01 GMT).

11. What is the HTTP status code and phrase returned from the server in response
to this second HTTP GET? Did the server explicitly return the contents of the
file? Explain.
The GTTP status code and phrase returned in response to this second request is
"304 Not Modified". The server did not explicitly return the contents of the
file, as the response of "Not Modified" lets the browser know that the contents
that would be returned are exactly the same as those which are cached by the
browser. The content has not been modified since before that particular
timestamp.

12. How many HTTP GET request messages did your browser send? Which packet
number in the trace contains the GET message for the Bill or Rights?
One HTTP GET request message was sent by my browser, corresponding to packet
number 296 in my trace.

13. Which packet number in the trace contains the status code and phrase associated
with the response to the HTTP GET request?
Packet number 310 contains the status code and phrase associated with the
response to the HTTP GET request.

14. What is the status code and phrase in the response?
The status code and phrase in the response is '200 OK'.

15. How many data-containing TCP segments were needed to carry the single HTTP
response and the text of the Bill of Rights?
Four data-containing TCP segments were needed to carry the single HTTP response
and text of the Bill of Rights, three of size 1460 bytes each, and the fourth
481 bytes.

16. How many HTTP GET request messages did your browser send? To which
Internet addresses were these GET requests sent?
Although I traced some extra packets, there were 4 HTTP GET requests (as one the
requests for the .jpg image came back with a 304 response) sent to the
following addresses:
  * 128.119.245.12
  * 128.119.240.90

17. Can you tell whether your browser downloaded the two images serially, or
whether they were downloaded from the two web sites in parallel? Explain.
The two images were downloaded serially, as they were transmitted over 2 TCP 
connections. We know this because the two packets used two different TCP ports.

18. What is the server’s response (status code and phrase) in response to the
initial HTTP GET message from your browser?
The server's response to the initial HTTP GET message is '401 Unauthorized'

19. When your browser sends the HTTP GET message for the second time, what
new field is included in the HTTP GET message?
When the browser sends the second HTTP GET message, the new field
"Authorization: Basic d2lyZXNoYXJrLXN0dWRlbnRzOm5ldHdvcms=" is included.
